Hi, I'm Hemal Hussain.
I have spent my entire career building developer tools for machine learning and data science.
I have worked at companies like DataRobot, Airbnb, and GitHub.
And through all of that experience, I've observed that the most impactful tools are ones that
help you share knowledge and collaborate with your colleagues.
Specifically, tools that allow you to publish, share, and render technical reports and knowledge
in a way that's easily discoverable, that other people can reference, is something that
I have found, personally, through my experience, to be the highest impact type of tools that
you can learn.
And that's why I'm really excited to teach this course on Enhancing Communication & Collaboration
with Jupyter Notebooks and Quarto.
So as you may know, Jupyter Notebooks is a great medium in which to write technical information.
You can intersperse code and prose in a natural way without having to copy and paste code
from another context.
You can have inline charts and interactive widgets and all kinds of things that really
enhance the presentation of technical material.
However, how do you go from this rich environment of a notebook to publishable content, something
like a website or a blog post, or even an internal knowledge management system where
If you're working on a team of data scientists, you can collaborate and look at each other's
work and search each other's work.
And this is something that Quarto really excels at.
And this is what I want to teach in this course.
So in this course, I'm going to show you how you can author documents in both Jupyter Notebooks
but also in plain text markdown files.
I'll also show you how you can use VS Code and the Quarto VS Code extension to aid you
in creating Quarto projects and editing files.
I'm going to show you how you can leverage Quarto to create different types of publications
such as personal blogs, knowledge management, platforms for teams, notes, books, websites,
and even presentation slides.
These are all formats that I have produced myself with Quarto.
I'm going to also show you how you can extend Quarto with notebook filters and extensions.
I'm also going to show you how you can host websites and publications on platforms like
GitHub Pages, Quarto Pub, and Netlify.
I'm also going to show you how you can test your notebooks and test your documentation
so that you can be sure that the code is valid and correct and is not stale.
And as a bonus, I'm going to also teach how you can even create and document Python packages
with a tool called NBDev and Quarto.
I am a core developer on NBDev and NBDev is built on Quarto and is one of the sources
of my knowledge of Quarto and one of the reasons why I am excited about it.
I hope that you'll join me in this course.
I think it has a lot of value for both personal growth in terms of helping you write blog
posts and share information, but also is a great tool to help you up-level your teams.
Thank you.